# BTTAI---BACKCOURT-Team-19
- We are working with Darren Douglas of BACKCOURT Business to analyze tweets surrounding the 2018 and 2022 FIFA World Cups. We are conducting sentiment analysis to classify tweets as either positive, negative, or neutral. We will generate an average sentiment surrounding these events, and draw insights on the overall sentiments on social media regarding these events.
- FINDINGS: Overall, our twitter dataset revealed an average sentiment score of 0.58 for 2018. Our 2022 data was ONLY regarding day of the 2022 World Cup, and that yielded a score of roughly 0.12. We filtered for tweets in the 2018 dataset that covered day one and conducted our analysis on just day one, yielding a result of 0.31.
- CONCLUSION: Public sentiment surrounding sporting events makes an impact on travel and ticket sales, and sports tourism companies can use our work to understand area to improve (hospitality, infrastructure) regarding sports events and public sentiment. We hope organizers can use our work to adapt strategies that can enhance fan experiences.
- NEXT STEPS: In the future, conducting a similar analysis on more games leading up to the finale(Carribean might be helpful, as well as using varied datasets over different sporting events and including different languages. It might also be beneficial to use data from other social media platforms, such as Instagram or Facebook. From a buisness standpoint, we would like to combine our results with advterising strategies and companies to allow businesses to make informed decisions on marketing and sponsorships. We would also like to explore specifically how (or if) sentiment correlates with ticket sales and merchandise revenue. 
